# Development And Publishing

## Prerequisites

- [uv](https://docs.astral.sh/uv/)
- `npm` - namely `npx`
- [just](https://github.com/casey/just)

## Environment Setup

This project uses `uv` to manage dependencies. `uv` is pretty good at automatically sync-ing. But if you need to explicitly set everything up, try:

```bash
just install
```

This will create a virtualenv at `./.venv` and install dependencies with `uv`.

## Just Tasks

To list all Just tasks, run `just --list`:

```
Available recipes:
    build         # Build the package
    build-docs    # Build the documentation
    check         # Check type annotations with pyright
    clean         # Clean up loose files
    compile       # Generate locked requirements files based on dependencies in pyproject.toml
    default       # By default, run checks and tests, then format and lint
    docs          # Live generate docs and host on a development webserver
    format        # Format with black and isort
    install       # Install all dependencies
    lint          # Lint with flake8
    man           # Generate man page and open for preview
    mkdocs        # Run mkdocs
    publish       # Build the package and publish it to PyPI
    shell         # Open a bash shell with the venv activated
    sphinx TARGET # Run sphinx
    tag           # Tag the release in git
    test          # Run tests with pytest
    tox           # Run tests using tox
    update        # Update all dependencies
    upgrade       # Update all dependencies and rebuild the environment
    upload        # Upload built packages
```

### Updating Modules

To update the modules being used, run:

```bash
just update
```

## Interactive Environments

To activate the venv in a subshell:

```bash
just shell
```

To fire up an interactive console:

```bash
just console
```

Note that I haven't figured out how to auto-exec code on load - you'll need
to import everything. The easiest thing may be to use full fat Jupyter,
potentially with [jpterm](https://github.com/davidbrochart/jpterm).


## Development Loop

There are four main just tasks:

- `just format` - format with black and isort
- `just check` - check type annotations with pyright
- `just test` - run tests with pytest
- `just lint` - lint with flake8 and validate-pyproject

To run all four in a row, simply run `just`. Then, run individual checks until
you're happy with it, and run `just` again to make sure all is well.

### Cross-Version Tests with tox

I usually lean on github actions for checking the test matrix, but `just tox`
should run them with tox. An avenue to explore may be acting smarter about
installing versions of python listed in the test matrix.

## Generating Docs

Docs for published projects are automatically generated by readthedocs, but
you can also preview them locally by running:

```bash
just docs
```

This will use `mkdoc`'s dev server - click the link, good to go. It even
supports hot reload!
  

## Publishing

### Do a Final Check

Run `just` to do final checks.

### Update the Changelog

Update the CHANGELOG.md file to detail the changes being rolled into the new
version.

### Update the Version in pyproject.toml

I do my best to follow [semver](https://semver.org) when updating versions.

### Add a Git Tag

I try to use git tags to tag versions - there's a just task:

```bash
just tag
```

### Push the Tag to GitHub

```bash
git push origin main --tags
```

### Check on GitHub Actions

This should trigger a GitHub Action which publishes to PyPI and creates a
GitHub Release. Go to GitHub and make sure it worked.

### Check on RTD

RTD should build automatically but I find there's a delay so I like to kick it
off manually. Log into [RTD](https://readthedocs.org), log in, then go
to [the pyee project page](https://readthedocs.org/projects/pyee/) and build
latest and stable.

### (Optional) Announce on Social Media

It's not official, but I like to announce the release on Bluesky and Mastodon.


### (Optional) Build and Publish Manually

If you want to publish the package manually, run:

```bash
just publish
```

This should automatically build the package and upload with `uv`.
